Sknat is a multiplayer 2D Shooter game. It can be played in 1v1, 2v2 or 1vAI mode. The goal of the game is to collect a key, which is randomly spawned in the map and bring it to the missile launcher panel in the middle of the map. When the missile launcher is activated by a team, it launches a missile to the opponents base. The goal is to destroy the opponents base. Each player controls a tank and can shoot at other players.

The game was developed as part of the Team Project module during my 2nd year at the University of Birmingham. I worked in a team of 5 people. A colleague of mine and I were working together and our responsibility was to implement the networking and the AI of the game. The others were responsible for the UI and the gameplay.

The game and all components were written in Java as required by the university.

The networking part was implemented using UDP and TCP. The game produced various messages, containing information about the updates in the game state. The messages usually contained multiple feature update, separated by a special character to reduce the size and the number of sent messages. The game followed a server-client architecture with one of the clients creating a server, connecting to it and allowing other players to join as well. Important information such as the game settings, collection of a key, missile launch, a player shooting, etc, was transferred to the server using TCP and then transmitted to all other clients using TCP as well. Not so important information which was generated frequently and did not have a big impact if lost, such as the player's position and the rotation of the gun, was transmitted through UDP to the server and through UDP to the clients.

The AI was kept relatively simple. It has a few states based on the game state and every state is a goal where the tank should go. Finding a path through the map was done by breaking up the map into small sectors and using the A* search algorighm to find the shortest path to the goal. The AI was also able to shoot in the players direction based on some conditions.